SDF demo (#31)
ignitionrobotics/docs: tutorials/SDF/car_demo.md

            <specular>0.2 0.2 0.2 1</specular>
            <attenuation>
                <range>1000</range>
                <constant>0.9</constant>
                <linear>0.01</linear>
                <quadratic>0.001</quadratic>
            </attenuation>
            <direction>-0.5 0.1 -0.9</direction>
        </light>

        <model name="ground_plane">
            <static>true</static>
            <link name="link">
                <collision name="collision">
                <geometry>
                    <plane>
                    <normal>0 0 1</normal>
                    </plane>
                </geometry>
                </collision>
                <visual name="visual">
                <geometry>
                    <plane>
                    <normal>0 0 1</normal>
                    <size>100 100</size>
                    </plane>
                </geometry>
                <material>
                    <ambient>0.8 0.8 0.8 1</ambient>
                    <diffuse>0.8 0.8 0.8 1</diffuse>
                    <specular>0.8 0.8 0.8 1</specular>
                </material>
                </visual>
            </link>
        </model>
    </world>
</sdf>
```

> Save the file, Navigate to the directory where you saved the file and launch the simulator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the file, navigate to the directory where you saved the file and launch the simulator:
```

### Left wheel

Let's add wheels to our robot. The following code goes after the `</link>` tag and before the `</model>` tag. All the links and joints belonging to the same model should be defined before the `</model>`.

```xml
<link name='left_wheel'>
    <pose relative_to="chassis">-0.5 0.6 0 -1.5707 0 0</pose>
    <inertial>
        <mass>1</mass>
        <inertia>
            <ixx>0.043333</ixx>
            <ixy>0</ixy>
            <ixz>0</ixz>
            <iyy>0.043333</iyy>
            <iyz>0</iyz>
            <izz>0.08</izz>
        </inertia>
    </inertial>
```

We defined the name of our link `left_wheel` and then defined its `<pose>` `relative_to` the `chassis` link.
The wheel needed to be placed on the left to the back of the `chassis` so that's why we chose the values for `pose` as `-0.5 0.6 0`.
Also, our wheel is a cylinder, but on its side.
That's why we defined the orientation value as `-1.5707 0 0` which is a `-90` degree rotation around the x-axis (the angles are in radians).
Then we defined the `inertial` properties of the wheel, the `mass` and the `inertia` matrix.

> #### Left wheel visualization

Reviewer: This section is adding both visual and collision, so I think this title is misleading. Maybe we can just remove it?

# Building your own robot

In this tutorial we will learn how to build our own robot in SDFormat. We will build a simple two wheeled robot.

>  You can find the finished world SDFormat of this tutorial [here](car_demo.sdf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 You can find the finished SDF file for tutorial [here](car_demo.sdf).
```

## What is SDF ?

[SDFormat](http://sdformat.org/) (Simulation Description Format), sometimes abbreviated as SDF, is an XML format that describes objects and environments for robot simulators, visualization, and control.

## Building a world

We will start by building a simple world and then build our robot in it. Open a new file and copy the following code to it.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<sdf version="1.7">
    <world name="car_world">
        <physics name="1ms" type="ignored">
            <max_step_size>0.001</max_step_size>
            <real_time_factor>1.0</real_time_factor>

>         </physics>

Reviewer: To make things simpler, we can remove this `<physics>` block.

Author: You mean because we don't have anything moving in our world so we can remove it?
I didn't explain anything related to the world I just refered to the world demo is fine or we need to do a just brief explanation

Reviewer: This block is optional, so I was just thinking that we don't need to introduce it to users this early. But if you think it is important we can leave it in.

Author: Ok I will remove it. 
But do we need to add a brief description to world's tag or refering to the world tutorial is enough?

Reviewer: I think just mentioning that the world will be explained in a future PR should be enough.

        <plugin
            filename="libignition-gazebo-physics-system.so"
            name="ignition::gazebo::systems::Physics">
        </plugin>
        <plugin
            filename="libignition-gazebo-user-commands-system.so"
            name="ignition::gazebo::systems::UserCommands">
        </plugin>
        <plugin
            filename="libignition-gazebo-scene-broadcaster-system.so"
            name="ignition::gazebo::systems::SceneBroadcaster">
        </plugin>
        <plugin
            filename="libignition-gazebo-contact-system.so"
            name="ignition::gazebo::systems::Contact">

>         </plugin>

Reviewer: For the purposes of this tutorial, I think we can remove the contact system.

            <specular>0.2 0.2 0.2 1</specular>
            <attenuation>
                <range>1000</range>
                <constant>0.9</constant>
                <linear>0.01</linear>
                <quadratic>0.001</quadratic>
            </attenuation>
            <direction>-0.5 0.1 -0.9</direction>
        </light>

        <model name="ground_plane">
            <static>true</static>
            <link name="link">
                <collision name="collision">
                <geometry>
                    <plane>
                    <normal>0 0 1</normal>
                    </plane>
                </geometry>
                </collision>
                <visual name="visual">
                <geometry>
                    <plane>
                    <normal>0 0 1</normal>
                    <size>100 100</size>
                    </plane>
                </geometry>
                <material>
                    <ambient>0.8 0.8 0.8 1</ambient>
                    <diffuse>0.8 0.8 0.8 1</diffuse>
                    <specular>0.8 0.8 0.8 1</specular>
                </material>
                </visual>
            </link>
        </model>
    </world>
</sdf>
```

> Save the file and try to launch it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the file and try to launch it. Navigate to the directory where you saved the file and launch the simulator:
```

:point_up: just in case

`ign gazebo car_demo.sdf`

> **Note**: you can name your file any name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: you can name your file any name and save it anywhere on your computer.
```

> You should see an empty world with just a ground plane. Check [World demo](../world_demo.md) to learn how to build your own world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see an empty world with just a ground plane and a sun light. Check [World demo](../world_demo.md) to learn how to build your own world.
```

## Building a model

Under the `</model>` tag we will add our robot model as follows:

### Defining the model

```xml
<model name='vehicle_blue' canonical_link='chassis'>
    <pose relative_to=world>0 0 0 0 0 0</pose>
```

Here we define the name of our model `vehicle_blue`, which should be a unique name among its siblings (other tags or models on the same level).

> Each non-static model must have at least one link designated as the `canonical_link`; the implicit frame of the model is attached to this link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each model may have one link designated as the `canonical_link`; the implicit frame of the model is attached to this link. If not defined, the first `<link>` will be chosen as the canonical link.
```

The [canonical_link](http://sdformat.org/spec?ver=1.7&elem=model#model_canonical_link) tag is optional. I also think it applies to static models as well.

        <material>
            <ambient>0.0 0.0 1.0 1</ambient>
            <diffuse>0.0 0.0 1.0 1</diffuse>
            <specular>0.0 0.0 1.0 1</specular>
        </material>
    </visual>
```

As the name suggests, the `<visual>` tag is responsible for how our link will look.
We define the shape of our link inside the `<geometry>` tag as a `<box>` (cuboid) and then specify the three dimensions (in meters) of this box inside the `<size>` tag.
Then, inside the `<material>` tag we define the material of our link.
Here we defined the `<ambient>`, `<diffuse>` and `<specular>` colors in a set of four numbers red/green/blue/alpha each in range [0, 1].

```xml
        <collision name='collision'>
            <geometry>
                <box>
                    <size>2.0 1.0 0.5</size>
                </box>
            </geometry>
        </collision>
    </link>
</model>
```

The `<collision>` tag defines the collision properties of the link, how our link will react with other objects and the effect of the physics engine on it.

**Note**: `<collision>` can be different from the visual properties, for example, simpler collision models are often used to reduce computation time.

> Run the world:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After copying all the parts above into the world file in order, run the world again:
```

Also, our wheel is a cylinder, but on its side.
That's why we defined the orientation value as `-1.5707 0 0` which is a `-90` degree rotation around the x-axis (the angles are in radians).
Then we defined the `inertial` properties of the wheel, the `mass` and the `inertia` matrix.

#### Left wheel visualization

```xml
    <visual name='visual'>
        <geometry>
            <cylinder>
                <radius>0.4</radius>
                <length>0.2</length>
            </cylinder>
        </geometry>
        <material>
            <ambient>1.0 0.0 0.0 1</ambient>
            <diffuse>1.0 0.0 0.0 1</diffuse>
            <specular>1.0 0.0 0.0 1</specular>
        </material>
    </visual>
    <collision name='collision'>
        <geometry>
            <cylinder>
                <radius>0.4</radius>
                <length>0.2</length>
            </cylinder>
        </geometry>
    </collision>
</link>
```

The `<visual>` and  the `<collision>` properties are similar to the previous link, except the shape of our link has the shape of `<cylinder>` that requires two attributes: the `<radius>` and the `<length>` of the cylinder.

> Our model should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Save and open the file again, our model should look like this:
```

        <inertia>
            <ixx>0.016</ixx>
            <ixy>0</ixy>
            <ixz>0</ixz>
            <iyy>0.016</iyy>
            <iyz>0</iyz>
            <izz>0.016</izz>
        </inertia>
    </inertial>
    <visual name='visual'>
        <geometry>
            <sphere>
                <radius>0.2</radius>
            </sphere>
        </geometry>
        <material>
            <ambient>0.0 1 0.0 1</ambient>
            <diffuse>0.0 1 0.0 1 1</diffuse>
            <specular>0.0 1 0.0 1</specular>
        </material>
    </visual>
    <collision name='collision'>
        <geometry>
            <sphere>
                <radius>0.2</radius>
            </sphere>
        </geometry>
    </collision>
</link>
```

Our last link is the `caster` and its pose is with respect to the frame `caster_frame` we defined above.
As you could notice we closed the `pose` tag without defining the position or the orientation; in this case the pose of the link is the same as (identity) the frame in `relative_to`.

In the `<visual>` and `<collision>` tags we defined a different shape `<sphere>` which requires the `<radius>` of the sphere.

### Connecting links together (joints)

> We need to connect these links together; here comes the job of `<joint>` tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to connect these links together; here comes the job of the `<joint>` tag.
```

The joint tag connects two links together and defines how they will move with respect to each other.
Inside the `<joint>` tag we need to define the two links to connect and their relations(way of movement).

#### Left wheel joint

```xml

> <joint name='left_wheel_joint' type='revolute'> <!--continuos joint is not supported yet-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<joint name='left_wheel_joint' type='revolute'>
```

I think we don't need that note about continuous joints. Most likely, people reading this tutorial won't have expectations about what a continuous joint is.

Reviewer: @mohamedsayed18 , I still see the comment on the tutorial. Did you intend to remove it?

    <pose relative_to='left_wheel'/>
```

Our first joint is the `left_wheel_joint`.
It takes two attributes: the name `name='left_wheel_joint'` and the type `type='revolute'`.
`revolute` type gives 1 rotational degree of freedom with joint limits.

> The pose of the joint is the same as `left_wheel` frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pose of the joint is the same as the child link frame, which is the `left_wheel`.
```

I think this is worth explaining.

```xml
    <parent>chassis</parent>
    <child>left_wheel</child>
```

Every joint connects two links (bodies) together.
Here we connect the `chassis` with the `left_wheel`.
`chassis` is the parent link and `left_wheel` is the child link.

```xml
    <axis>
        <xyz expressed_in='__model__'>0 1 0</xyz> <!--can be described to any frame or even arbitrary frames-->
        <limit>
            <lower>-1.79769e+308</lower>    <!--negative infinity-->
            <upper>1.79769e+308</upper>     <!--positive infinity-->
        </limit>
    </axis>
</joint>
```

Here we define the axis of rotation.
The axis of rotation can be any frame, not just the `parent` or the `child` link.

> We chose the y-axis with respect to the `model` frame so we put `1` in the y element and zeros in the other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We chose the y-axis with respect to the `model` frame so we put `1` in the y element and zeros in the others.
```

For the revolute joint we need to define the `<limits>` of our rotation angle in the `<lower>` and `<upper>` tags.

**Note**: The angles are in radians.

#### Right wheel joint

The `right_wheel_joint` is very similar except for the pose of the joint.
This joint connects the `right_wheel` with the `chassis`.

```xml
<joint name='right_wheel_joint' type='revolute'>
    <pose relative_to='right_wheel'/>
    <parent>chassis</parent>
    <child>right_wheel</child>
    <axis>
        <xyz expressed_in='__model__'>0 1 0</xyz>
        <limit>
            <lower>-1.79769e+308</lower>    <!--negative infinity-->
            <upper>1.79769e+308</upper>     <!--positive infinity-->
        </limit>
    </axis>
</joint>
```

#### Caster wheel joint

For the caster we need a different type of joint (connection).
We used `type='ball'` which gives 3 rotational degrees of freedom.

```xml
<joint name='caster_wheel' type='ball'>
    <parent>chassis</parent>
    <child>caster</child>
</joint>
```

## Conclusion

Run the world:

`ign gazebo car_demo.sdf`

It should look like this:

![two_wheeled_robot](two_wheeled_robot.png)

> Hurray! We build our first robot. You can learn more details about SDFormat tags [here][http://sdformat.org/spec]. In the next [tutorial](../moving_robot_demo.md) we will learn how to move our robot around.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hurray! We build our first robot. You can learn more details about SDFormat tags [here](http://sdformat.org/spec). In the next [tutorial](../moving_robot_demo.md) we will learn how to move our robot around.
```

### TODO

> * link to moving_robot_demo, world tutorials.

Reviewer 2: For now you can remove these lines and any other references to other tutorials; we'll add those all back once everything is on master
